# 監督  = ディレクター

**監督** | **ディレクター** – *kantoku* | *direkutā*. The **director** is responsible for handling the finer details of production and determines how a show is run. The kinds of work they deal with depends on the medium and scale of production but they generally oversee the overall design and planning with the rest of the staff as it comes together. They are usually referred to as the hands-on-set counterpart of the producer, though while they indeed serve different and important functions, the producer tends to be seen as the more authoritative role especially in fields (such as TV) where the producer picks the director.

Since directors come in all kinds with special titles (animation director, sound director, etc.), this glossary will only cover the ones relevant to seiyuu work.

For radio shows and programs, the director fully handles the set since the producer is rarely present. They approve the script, plan the overall direction of the show, and give instructions to the personality and staff (some of which may be provided by the station since the core staff tends to be small) during recording from the sound room, though they may also just do it themselves. They also do most of the post-production. An [assistant director](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%82%A2%E3%82%B7%E3%82%B9%E3%82%BF%E3%83%B3%E3%83%88%E3%83%87%E3%82%A3%E3%83%AC%E3%82%AF%E3%82%BF%E3%83%BC) may also serve under them however programs with short run times (less than one hour) don’t usually have one.

Anime directors work directly with the [sound director](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%81%8A%E3%82%93%E3%81%8D%E3%82%87%E3%81%86%E3%81%8B%E3%82%93%E3%81%A8%E3%81%8F%20%28%E9%9F%B3%E9%9F%BF%E7%9B%A3%E7%9D%A3%29) so the amount of control they have varies. Some directors have more influence with casting and acting direction because they communicate with the art department to ensure that the performance matches the animation and vice versa. Some leave that responsibility to the sound director.
