# 解散

**解散** – _kaisan_. **disband**. Dissolution or breakup of a group around or following a cease of activities. Related to [fade out](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%83%95%E3%82%A7%E3%83%BC%E3%83%89%E3%82%A2%E3%82%A6%E3%83%88).

Groups form, peak, stagnate, then disband. But not always. Sometimes they just disband out of nowhere, never really hitting their stride. Some disband as they hit their peak. In most cases, it is a business and management issue because they weren’t sustainable anymore, or personal issues got too much in the way. This is less worrisome for *seiyuu* groups since they are more likely formed to promote an anime, a product, or themselves while still focusing on their solo careers; those groups never truly disband, they just fade away and become inactive. However, for groups that were formed as a result of open call auditions, it can be a nightmare as that would have been their foot in the door in the industry and most, if not all, of their work would have been centered around their group’s activities. They may be forced to look for a new agency to take them in as well.

Regardless, these events also tend to have sudden effects even if they’re announced ahead of time. Social media accounts may get wiped out once the disband goes into effect, making archiving of their activities a harder task. Some groups don’t allow members to have personal accounts, leaving fans with no idea as to the status of the members unless they start making personal accounts themselves. Fan sentiment can turn around or become more fervent. Resellers can take advantage of the flow of goods for more profit. Event organizers and media corporations might read the overall sentiment and see it as an opportunity to dedicate a final send-off. All or none of that could happen and the group just fades into obscurity faster. You never really know other than the guarantee that the group will be breaking up.
