# 収録

**収録** – *shūroku*. **recording**. Used for recording for music, audio dramas, radio shows, etc. Also applies to video recording for MVs and the like though you’d more often see [*satsuei*](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%81%95%E3%81%A4%E3%81%88%E3%81%84%20(%E6%92%AE%E5%BD%B1)) instead.

Like *afureko*, song recording processes differ but according to Mayu Yoshioka, who has done both solo and group recordings, she described the process as such:

- A recording session for one singer to do one song takes about one and a half to three hours. Which means for group songs, you multiply that with the number of members to get a rough estimate as it is more complicated due to the amount of mastering, adjustments, and harmonizing involved.

- A song is recorded in three parts: **Main melody** (主線メロディ; *shusen–merodi* | メロディ; *merodi*), **Harmony** (ハーモニー; *hāmonii* | ハモ; *hamo* | 和声; wasei), **Chorus** (コーラス; *kōrasu*). Within that time frame, most of it (about 70%) will be taken up to perfect the main melody as it serves as the baseline of the song. It involves listening to the guide vocals, rhythm, and beat to get a feel for it before actual recording takes place. Harmonizing comes next which involves recording in different keys to match the main vocals of the melody. The chorus, while arguably the most lively and memorable part of the song, is done last.

- It works the same way for group songs but because recordings are normally done one person at a time (it is a different case with idol groups such as AKB with their high member count so those are done in batches), there is the added factor of picking who records first. That is important because much of the direction will revolve around how that was done, serving as a general framework for the rest to follow, especially harmonizing.

She also described special scenarios involving a duet song that was recorded at the same with both singers in separate booths. There were also cases where she recorded original songs and was heavily involved in the mixdown (see [torakku daun](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%83%88%E3%83%A9%E3%83%83%E3%82%AF%E3%83%BB%E3%83%80%E3%82%A6%E3%83%B3)) process; she first recorded a [demo track](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%81%8B%E3%82%8A%E3%81%86%E3%81%9F%20(%E4%BB%AE%E6%AD%8C)) which would get re-recorded as the main vocals once the instrumentals are added before being arranged and rebalanced.
