# 中古品

**中古品** –  *chūkohin*. **Resale goods** or **Second-hand goods**. Japan’s consumer culture still has a sizable market for physical goods. For instance, even with a ton of digital options, people still buy physical CDs for their collection. Often, people get rewarded for purchasing items in quantity since they come with random *tokuten*, collectors’ items, lottery, and advance event tickets, especially for meet-and-greet and cheki opportunities. There are also items that are only purchasable at events such as photos, badges, pamphlets, shirts, towels, etc.

This leaves people with too many of the same item, or items they don’t want or have to let go of. **Resale shops** or **Second-hand goods stores** (リサイクルショップ; risaikuru shoppu | 中古店; *chūko-ten* | 転売屋; *tenbai-ya* or *tenbai-shi*) are always happy to purchase them off you so they can sell them at an arbitrary price based on demand and popularity. This is a good place to gauge how popular someone or a character is because you can compare it from the price, availability, positioning, and the level of anti-theft measures it has relative to everything around it. That said, things also go for really cheap if you know how to look. Items also cycle on a regular basis so you can lose a day and not find what you need only to see it in plain sight the next day.

A variety of such physical stores exist, each with a focus or specialty depending on where it is located: K-BOOKS, LASHINBANG, Surugaya, Bookoff, Anime Jungle, Mandarake, Amiami, etc. You can also find resale goods on online marketplaces:  Mercari, eBay, and Yahoo! Auctions, etc.
