# インタビュー

**インタビュー** – *intabyū*. **Interviews** are press activities carried out to coincide with a release, an event, or an occasion. They are usually published in magazines or online, and the length can range from a few questions to a multi-page full feature. Interviews may involve shoots as well, which could be simple shots of them talking to glamour (or gravure) photos. If it’s a post-event interview, they may feature exclusive photos.

Interviews are usually taken in batches for different press outlets and are transcribed and edited for clarity, readability, and to fit the format. This is more apparent in interviews that come in two versions (print and online) where entire segments could be shortened and/or edited out for space.   

Interviews are an excellent source of information because they usually occur during milestones of a *seiyuu* or an artist’s career. Depending on the interviewer and the interviewee, you can learn a lot pertaining to the topic discussed and just about anything surrounding it. This may include behind-the-scenes anecdotes, candid impressions, or industry insight. Interviewers also tend to be assigned to the same people/group or they work on an interview series so you get instances of them referring to past interviews that further enrich the content. Some interviewees are better at conveying their thoughts in this format so they are more comfortable going in-depth into certain topics. The only downside is that they’re written and suffer the same disadvantages when compared to video content.

::: info
As someone who has read and translated a ton of these, song interviews are very valuable because that’s where you learn how the song was made and how the lyrics are interpreted. *Seiyuu* interviews can be repetitive but it lends to cross-referencing and sometimes they might end up adding more to what they’ve already shared. Director/creator interviews talk more about the process, including casting and if it involves a particular *seiyuu* they might even include some funny or insightful anecdote. Producer interviews reveal more about top-level decision making since they have the most control over a project.
