# ギャランティー

**ギャランティー** – *gyarantii*. **Guarantee** or **Base rate**. Often shortened to *gyara* (ギャラ), it refers to the base amount of pay a *seiyuu* gets. It is a set amount that changes based on rank, kind of media, and time (in both time spent working and runtime of the media worked on).  
  
According to **Yumeha Kōda**, the voice of Clemea in *KonoSuba: God’s Blessing on This Wonderful World!* and Zuita Brusasco in *Chaika – The Coffin Princess*, the gyara isn’t a fixed value and it is subject to negotiation. It varies depending on the medium and rank which serves as an indicator of their marketability. She does, however, reveal what rookies get as a baseline (Note: this was written in 2017):

- For anime and foreign dubs, the *gyara* is 15,000 yen per episode and that is a fixed number that has no bearing on number of lines or time spent working. Which means whatever the role, no matter how important, how many lines they would need to voice, or how long it’s going to be, it will be 15,000 yen.   
    
- For games (including mobile games), the *gyara* is primarily influenced by the number of lines (see [wā-do kazu](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%83%AF%E3%83%BC%E3%83%89%E3%81%8B%E3%81%9A%20%28%E3%83%AF%E3%83%BC%E3%83%89%E6%95%B0%29)), which generally adds up to more than what they voice for anime and foreign dubbing. From about 20,000 – 30,000 yen for as little as 15 lines to around 50,000 yen for 300 lines.  
    
- For radio, it is lower. Usually 5,000 – 10,000 yen per episode. It does go higher (15,000 yen) if it’s an anime tieup (that said, such shows don’t run for very long). For public radio shows, there are sponsored so the gyara depends on the amount their sponsor is willing to give.  
    
- For pachinko, it is fairly high. 50,000 yen for as little as 15 lines, making them very lucrative if one gets a chance to work on these.  
    
- For narration for commercials, it’s in the range of 100,000 yen to 300,000 yen. Famous *seiyuu* could even push that up to 1,000,000 yen. It is, however, dependent on the station and the region they’re broadcasting to so it’s not uncommon for it to go down to 50,000 yen as well. In terms of time, a 15 second commercial can be recorded in less than an hour so one can imagine how great these opportunities are.

She further emphasizes that this is subject to negotiation, especially as one climbs the ladder and gains more experience. If one is lucky, their *gyara* could go up 2-3 times as much in a few years. They could also do jobs for free or for less than the estimated gyara. She does however caution against this practice, especially as more hopefuls want to break into the profession, because voice work is a craft and setting lower rates won’t help anyone.

A detailed explanation of the concept, as well as earnings, is found here ([https://seiyuuplus.wordpress.com/2015/07/04/71-seiyuu-castings-earnings-everything-in-between/](https://seiyuuplus.wordpress.com/2015/07/04/71-seiyuu-castings-earnings-everything-in-between/))  
  
The above figures are from this source which was written by an actual *seiyuu* but it is in Japanese ([https://yumemon.com/archives/2067](https://yumemon.com/archives/2067))
