# ファン(の方)

**ファン(の方)** – *fan (no kata)*. **Fans** or **supporters** in a general sense since nicknames are given to a fanbase to separate them from others. As one would expect in this industry, a certain distance is observed and respected between *seiyuu* and fan though it actually depends on the *seiyuu* and the agency. For interactions, there is a line that shouldn’t be crossed but a *seiyuu* would occasionally bridge that gap. They would directly interact with fans without prompting, respond to social media, reveal more about their personal lives, spend more time with fans during fan meetings. Fans are also the first to know if they’re about to undergo a significant change such as marriage, study or medical leave, change of agency, hiatus, or retirement from a role or from the industry all together.

Some *seiyuu* can be upfront with how they acknowledge their fans and are aware of the activities of their fanbase. They would even remark at the presence of regulars and fan habits in meet-and-greets, or tease them in programs. In one instance, a *seiyuu* expressed gratitude to and concern for her fans after receiving expensive gifts from them, reminding them to be responsible and only support their favorites within their means (because it is understandably a tough hobby to keep up with).

In some respects, how a *seiyuu* recognizes and shows consideration to their fanbase becomes part of their appeal. It could be Q&A opportunities in social media, inside jokes, buzzwords, or call-and-response routines that would only make sense if you’ve followed them long enough. It could be a unique fan service gesture that directly addresses them. It could be a setlist or feature that caters to their fans, or conversely, something similar that would make their fans know them better. Fanbases are communities and one can’t always tell if they end up good or not, so seeing a *seiyuu* attempt to reach out to them past the usual methods is not common.
