# メール = (お)便り

**メール** | **(お)便り** – *mērū* | *(o)tayori*. **mail**. Specifically refers to email, usually the ones sent to programs. The handwritten variety is [*tegami*](https://seiyuu.yakuaru.com/%E3%81%A6%E3%81%8C%E3%81%BF%20%28%E6%89%8B%E7%B4%99%29).

A program receives mail in several ways and the most common ones are: Direct email where you send them to an email address displayed on their channel page and social media posts, and a handy form that does it for you. They usually request mail pertaining to certain topics or **themes** (テーマ; *tēma*). Format-wise, all they need is 1.) a **handle name** (ハンドルネーム; *handoru nēmu*) or whatever name the viewers are being called by the personality, and 2.) the **message** (メッセージ; *mesēji*) itself. There is explicitly no cutoff for receiving them since the script writer will be screening them, sometimes even mid-show. 

::: info
As an overseas fan who has had his mail read live a few times, they do screen everything and my tip is to appeal to the script writer by writing something that they would like to be read on the show. Your Japanese doesn’t have to be perfect (they had trouble understanding my second email because I wrote it weird but they read it as is), because they appreciate the effort, especially if you indicate that you’re an overseas fan. Do it for special occasions like birthdays or if the topic works for you and you know what to write. And of course, the less popular the show, the better the chances. Regardless, everything gets read and some personalities go through that effort and tell their fans that they do.
:::
